# GraphDPA: predicting drug-pathway associations by graph convolutional networks

This repository includes GraphDPA model code, 15 trained GraphDPA models, and an example.

##Prerequisite

Create the environment from YML using Conda

conda env create -f environment.yml

## Usage
1.Construct graphs of drug pathway pairs.

2.Train the GraphDPA model with a training dataset.

3.Use the trained models for prediction and evaluation.

## Example

**example-construct-graph.ipynb** Under-sampled unlabeled samples. Construct graphs of drug pathway pairs. Based on example data.

**example-model-training.ipynb** The GraphDPA model based on GCNconv is trained using graphs generated from sample data.

**example-model-prediction.ipynb** An ensemble model composed of 15 GraphDPA was used to predict example data.

## Folder/file description

**codes** contains code for the GraphDPA model and utils.

**example_base_data** contains data that has been obtained from the database and initially processed.

**example_base_data/drug2smile.pkl** Dictionary data, keys are the drugs that meet the requirements, and values are the corresponding SMILES string.

**example_base_data/extra_val_set.csv** Drug-pathway associations obtained from the database (part).

**example_base_data/pathway2genes.pkl** Dictionary data, keys are the pathways that meet the requirements, and values are genes list associated with the pathways.

**saved_models** contains 15 trained GraphDPA models.

**example_saved_data** contains the files generated by example*.ipynb.
